Hello there this is my first blog. This blog will help anyone who wants to use fetch api instead of jquery.ajax() for ajax i.e sending data asynchronously. Recently I was working on a task where I had to update a database and also fetch information from it without refreshing the page.This will be particularly useful if you have a functionality which depends on sending data, updating a database, receiving response and finally execute something depending on the response received.

In test_fetch.html, clicking a button calls use_ajax function which stringifies the data, sends it through method 'POST'. The headers specify the json format of data. Mode: 'same-origin', credentials: 'same-origin' if you want the php file to access the same session.
The fetch api returns a promise and the then function is executed if the promise resolves. An alert according the data received as response ensures that communication succeeds both ways.

### This is the test_fetch.html file
{% highlight html %}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<body>
<h2>FETCH API</h2>
<button type="button" onclick="use_ajax(4,'Gurjot')">Test</button> 
<!-- You can change the id and name sent by changing parameters above -->
<script>
function use_ajax(num,sent_name) 
//function called when button is clicked with argument, currently 4
{
  var json_upload =  JSON.stringify({
              id: num,
              name: sent_name
            });
       //name of php file called during fetch
       fetch('receive_content.php', {
       method: 'POST',
       mode: 'same-origin',   
       //used so that receive_content.php can access session variables if present
       credentials: 'same-origin',
       headers: {
                  'Content-Type': 'application/json',
                },
       body: json_upload }) // then function is executed if promise returned by fetch resolves
       .then(function(response) {
              if(response.ok)
              {
                return (response.json()); //conversion to json
              }})
       .then(obj => { 
                      //obj array has id,name and method sent as response at indices 0,1 and 2 respectively
       
                      alert('Id '+ obj[0] + ' has been successfully sent and received by '+ obj[1]+ ' using '+ obj[2]);
                    });
}
</script>
</body>
</html>
{% endhighlight %}

In receive_content.php, you will get the data through php://input, decode it and extract the various elements. The array $arr is encoded and sent as response. The receiver after conversion to array can access the elements at proper indices.

### This is the receive_content.php file
{% highlight php %}
<?php

//You can also use session_start(); to access session variables if used 'mode: same-origin'

$json_content = file_get_contents('php://input'); //getting data sent through POST
$json = json_decode($json_content,true);	//decoding the data to an associative array $json 
$id= $json['id'];	//getting the id sent using appropriate index
$name= $json['name'];	//getting the name
$arr = array($id,$name,'Fetch Api');
$JSON = json_encode($arr);	//encoding the array
echo $JSON;
?>
{% endhighlight %}
